Delhivery Direct Intracity – Terms and Conditions
These Terms and Conditions (TnC’s) form a legally binding agreement between you (the "User/Shipper/Sender/Customer, as the case maybe) and Delhivery Freight Services Private Limited ("Delhivery"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Delhivery Limited, regarding your use of the local intracity services under Delhivery Direct ("Services"). By clicking "I Agree" or otherwise indicating acceptance, you confirm that you have read, understood, and agreed to comply with the TnC’s. Any adjustments, variations or updation under the TnC’s are at Delhivery’s sole discretion. You shall be responsible for checking the TnC’s from time to time and ensure continued adherence.
Definitions
For the purposes of these TnC’s, the following terms shall have the meaning assigned to them below:
‘Consideration’ means the amount payable by the User to Delhivery for availing the Services, as determined in accordance with the applicable Shipment category and other pricing terms set forth herein.
'Consignee' means a person to whom the Shipment has to be delivered, as mentioned in the manifest by the Shipper.
‘Delhivery Direct’ is a fast, seamless, and reliable doorstep parcel shipping Service across India. It enables User/Shipper/Sender/Customer to book delivery personnel and vehicles through a mobile or web application for transporting Shipments within city limits or the designated areas, as applicable and updated from time to time.
RTO or Return to Origin means the return movement of a Shipment to its original pickup location when delivery to the intended recipient could not be completed.
Services means the intracity Delhivery Direct Services offered by Delhivery, in accordance with the scope and limitations defined under these TnC’s.
'Shipment' means all the products consolidated, packaged and handed over to Delhivery.
TAT refers to Turnaround Time, i.e., the time period within which Delhivery endeavours to process requests for Services.
Transporter refers to any person engaged in providing services of transportation of goods to the end user via Delhivery Direct.
The User warrants and undertakes that all Shipments in respect of which Delhivery is to provide the Services are either owned by the User or legally in their possession or under their control.
The User agrees to fully indemnify Delhivery against any loss, damage or claim made against Delhivery arising from any lack of authority of the User to contract with Delhivery for the Services, or any breach of warranty or undertaking given by the User.
The User agrees that the Services are subject to all the prevailing statutory taxes, duties, fees, charges and/or costs, applicable from time to time. It shall be the responsibility of the User to comply with applicable laws on payment of taxes and pay the prevailing charges and duties which shall form part of the invoice raised by Delhivery.
Payment for Services rendered can be made through the following methods -
Online Payment - Accepted via credit/debit cards, UPI, digital wallets, and other approved electronic payment platforms.
Cash on Pickup/ Delhivery - Available only in select serviceable areas and subject to eligibility.
No commitment is made for time bound completion of Services. Any time of arrival/delivery provided at booking is an estimate only and, there may be occasional delays for reasons outside Delhivery’s control. Delhivery shall not be liable for any loss arising from such delays.
Delhivery shall not be liable for any delay in pickup, mis-delivery, non-delivery or loss or damage caused on account of an act of God, force majeure and or circumstances like war, epidemics, pandemics, embargoes, local disputes, riots/civil commotion, political and other disturbances or accidental fire, accident of vehicle carrying the goods, arrest, restraint or seizure under legal process, order or restrictions or prohibition imposed by any governmental authority, explosions or any other cause reasonably beyond the control of Delhivery.
The User acknowledges and agrees that Delhivery may block their access to the Services, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason, at Delhivery’s sole discretion, without prior notice or liability. Such reasons may include, without limitation, violation of these TnC’s, applicable laws, security risks, or fraudulent activities. Any restoration of the Services shall be at Delhivery’s sole discretion.
The User agrees that all Shipments agreed to be delivered by Delhivery are on "SAID TO CONTAIN BASIS" i.e. Delhivery shall be under no obligation to verify the description and contents of the Shipments declared by the Shipper. The User shall undertake to make proper, true, fair, correct and factual declaration regarding description and value of Shipments.
All Shipments are booked by Delhivery in good faith in respect of the contents thereof. The Shipment shall not contain any items or materials which are prohibited/ banned, dangerous, hazardous or considered contraband by any applicable law. In the event of the Shipment containing any items or material as aforesaid, the Shipper agrees and undertakes to fully indemnify Delhivery for any loss, damages, costs, expenses, penalties, fines, liability thereof by Delhivery with regard to the said item or material. Further, Shipper agrees to indemnify and hold the Delhivery harmless for any loss, damages, costs, expenses, penalties, fines, liabilities, of any nature whatsoever incurred or suffered by Delhivery due to any acts or omissions, breach of applicable law and/ or third party claims solely attributable to the Shipper.
The Shipper shall not book any Shipment containing any of the following items (“Restricted Items”).
Oil-based paint and thinners (flammable liquids)
Industrial solvents
Insecticides, garden chemicals (fertilizers, poisons)
Magnetized materials
Machinery (chain saws, outboard engines containing fuel or that have contained fuel)
Fuel for camp stoves, lanterns, torches or heating elements
Infectious substances
Any compound, liquid or gas that has toxic characteristics
Bleach
Flammable adhesives
Arms and ammunitions
Dry ice (Carbon Dioxide, Solid)
Pressurized Containers
Narcotic Substances
Precious stones, gems, and jewellery
Uncrossed (bearer) drafts / cheque, currency, and coins
Poison
Firearms, explosives, and military equipment.
Hazardous and radioactive material
Any pornographic material
Hazardous chemical item
Shippers agree to not hand over any secure documents including but not restricted to education certificates, passport, Aadhar Cards, bank statements, credit cards, debit cards, bank cheques and / or currency items, passports amongst other documents for delivery through this Service. Delhivery shall have no liability in such cases if such documents are handed over for delivery by the Shipper.
Delhivery will use the Shipper / Consignee information as shared, to update and inform the Shipper / Consignee through SMS, Whatsapp and/ or email regarding the delivery status of the Shipment and obtain feedback from the Shipper / Consignee regarding the Services only so as to improve the customer experience with Delhivery. Further, Delhivery or its affiliates may share promotional information or offers regarding the Services provided by Delhivery only at the option of the User and at all times the User shall be in its right to opt out from receiving such information.
Shippers will be solely liable for the details entered at the time of booking a Shipment. Delhivery does not bear any liability for the said information.
Delhivery reserves the right to refuse delivery of Shipment if proper acknowledgment, such as, signature, government ID card if required etc. is not given by the Consignee. Further, the Shipper is required to share the address of the Consignee along with the pin code and the telephone number to enable prompt delivery and easy identification.
The Shipper understands and accepts that the Shipment shall be carried by Delhivery from the point of booking to the delivery address based on the address and pin code of the Consignee along with the correct credentials of the Consignee. For any rerouting / redirection, the Shipper shall be liable to pay additional charges as applicable.
Reverse liability - In the event of mis-declaration of the product in the Shipment where such product causes damage to itself or any other related goods while under carriage, the Shipper shall be liable for any damages related to the product including consequential damages.
Under no circumstances will Delhivery or any of its director, officer, employee, agent or contractor be liable to the Shipper or Consignee for any indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary losses or damages, mis-delivery, non-delivery of Shipment for any reason whatsoever. More particularly, Delhivery shall not be liable for any loss of income, profits, interests and other consequential losses.
The Shipper declares that he has packed the Shipment as per packaging guidelines mentioned under the TnC’s. The Shipper undertakes the entire responsibility in case of any damage to the goods in the Shipment due to faulty or improper packaging and shall not make any claim, whatsoever, against Delhivery for the same. The liability for packaging shall be completely on the Shipper.
Packaging is the packaging material that first envelops the product and holds it. For example, suitable packing materials are bubble wrap, rolled corrugated cardboard, etc. For very delicate contents such as glass, it is recommended to use five or six-ply bubble wrap. Shipper should only use crumpled newspapers as filling material for products that are not particularly delicate or fragile in nature.
Delhivery does not provide special handling stickers for packages bearing the tag "Fragile", package orientation markings (e.g., "UP" arrows or "This End Up"), or any other similar markings.
When loading the vehicle prior to transportation, the Shipper agrees not to exceed the weight and size details specified by the Shipper at the time of booking. Shipper shall ensure that the items are within these limits to ensure safe transport and compliance with Delhivery’s guidelines and applicable laws. Delhivery has the right to reject any goods which exceed the weight and size specified at the time of booking.
Shipper must adhere to the following maximum weight limits based on the category of delivery vehicle selected for the Shipment -
Two-Wheeler (2W): Maximum load capacity of 20 kilograms
Mini Three-Wheeler (Mini 3W): Maximum load capacity of 50 kilograms
Three-Wheeler (3W): Maximum load capacity of 500 kilograms
Tata Ace: Maximum load capacity of 750 kilogram
The Shipper understands and agrees that the Consignee of the Shipment should be available at the drop-off location or assign an authorized person at the time communicated for delivery of the Shipment. In the event the Consignee is not available at the drop-off location or refuses to take delivery, the Shipper will be contacted and Shipment will be returned at the RTO location. Additionally, in case of non-acceptance of the RTO Shipment by the Shipper or in case the Shipper is not reachable for RTO Shipment, Delhivery reserves the right to levy suitable demurrage/incidental charges for extended storage of each Shipment. Shippers may cancel their booking prior to the assignment of a delivery partner, subject to the cut-off time specified during the booking process. Cancellations made after this window may incur applicable cancellation charges which will be deducted from any eligible refund.
Delhivery reserves the right to cancel bookings at its sole discretion in the event of operational constraints, unavailability of resources, safety concerns, or other unforeseen circumstances. In such instances, affected Shippers will be notified promptly and will be eligible for a full refund, where applicable.
Where a refund is applicable, the amount will be credited to the original mode of payment within 7–10 business days from the date of cancellation confirmation. Delhivery is not liable for delays caused by payment gateway providers or banks.
Delhivery also reserves the right, at any point of time, in its sole discretion, to set restrictions on the use of a coupon code including but not limited to :
The maximum amount of discount applicable
The number of times a coupon code can be redeemed
Whether a coupon code is applicable on Mobile or Web or both
If the full value of the coupon is not redeemed during the first use, the remaining balance may be redeemed in subsequent transactions until the coupon expires, subject to applicable terms. Coupons are reactivated in case they are unused in the event of the cancellation of the booking.
Delhivery reserves the right to modify or revoke coupon benefits at its discretion.
These TnC’s shall be governed by the laws of India, for the time being in force and the courts at New Delhi in the NCT of Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction.
Limitation of liability :
Two-Wheeler Deliveries – The liability of Delhivery shall be limited to the lower of:
the actual value of the goods,
the freight amount paid, or
INR 1,500.
Three-Wheeler & Tata Ace Deliveries – The liability of Delhivery shall be limited to the lower of:
the actual value of the goods,
the freight amount paid, or
INR 5,000.
For Shipments exceeding the above liability limits, it shall be the sole responsibility of the Shipper to obtain and maintain appropriate insurance coverage. Delhivery shall not be liable for any loss or damage to such Shipments beyond the limits specified above.
Any claim by the Shipper for loss or damage must be submitted in writing within 24 hours of receipt of the Shipment and must be accompanied by supporting photographs and a detailed description of the alleged loss or damage.
The Shipper acknowledges and agrees that Delhivery shall communicate directly with the designated Shipper, Consignor (pickup point of contact) and Consignee (delivery point of contact) in relation to the Services. Such points of contact will also receive updates, notifications, and all information pertaining to the pickup and delivery of Shipments.
Bill and Documentation Compliance – For inter-state Shipments with a Consignment value exceeding Rs. 50,000, the Shipper shall be responsible for generating and providing a valid E-way bill along with the invoice to the driver partner at the time of pickup. For Consignments valued below Rs. 50,000, the Customer shall provide a bill of supply or delivery challan as applicable.
TDS Compliance – Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) shall be applicable if the aggregate fare payable to Delhivery exceeds Rs. 1,00,000 in a financial year. The process for TDS deduction and reimbursement shall be as per applicable law and mutually agreed procedure between the Parties.
