Consignments entrusted to Delhivery Limited (Delhivery) by you (hereinafter referred to as consignor) for shipment/transportation on agreed terms and conditions as specified below :
The consignor acknowledges that the terms and conditions will be binding on the consignor and Delhivery.
The consignor warrants that he is the owner or the authorized agent of the owner of the goods / articles transported and accepts these present terms and conditions.
The consignor warrants to Delhivery that the description of the consignment/goods/articles as noted on this consignment note confirms accurately to the actual content thereof and it does not contravene the provisions of the Indian Postal Act or any other applicable law.
It is expressly understood by the Parties that all shipments agreed to be delivered by Delhivery are on "SAID TO CONTAIN BASIS" i.e. Delhivery shall be under no obligation to verify the description and contents of the shipments declared by the consignor. The consignor shall undertake to make proper, true, fair, correct and factual declaration regarding description and value of Shipments.
Delhivery shall have the right to open / inspect the consignment at the time of booking or during transit.
At the time of booking parcels, the consignor will be required to provide a declaration stating the value of the consignment and the detailed description of materials in the consignment and the same shall be binding on the consignor.
Delhivery reserves the right to alter, at any point of time, in its sole discretion, the terms and conditions pertaining to any promotions, offers and discounts offered to the consignor at the time of booking the order.
Delhivery also reserves the right, at any point of time, in its sole discretion, to set restrictions on the use of a coupon code including but not limited to :
The maximum amount of discount applicable
The number of times a coupon code can be redeemed
Whether a coupon code is applicable on Mobile or Web or both
Notwithstanding any other terms and conditions provided herein, it is agreed by the consignor that it shall not book any consignment/goods which are commercial in nature and while booking the consignment/goods for shipment, the consignor shall confirm with the non-commercial nature of the consignment. In the event, if the consignor confirms with the non-commercial nature of the consignment and at a later stage the consignment is found to be commercial in nature, then Delhivery shall at its sole discretion forfeit/dispose off such consignment, return the consignment with cost and a penalty as per its policy with regard to misleading nature of the consignment /goods.
Delhivery will use the consignor / consignee information as shared, to update and inform the consignor / consignee through SMS, Whatsapp and/ or email regarding the delivery status of the product and obtain feedback from the consignor / consignee regarding the said service only so as to improve the customer experience with Delhivery. Further, Delhivery or its affiliates may share promotional information or offers regarding the services provided by Delhivery only at the option of the user and at all times the user shall be in its right to opt out from receiving such information.
Consignors will be solely liable for the details entered at the time of booking a shipment and will also be required to upload a government approved ID card. Delhivery does not bear any liability for the said information.
All shipments are booked by Delhivery in good faith in respect of the contents thereof. The consignment shall not contain any items or materials which are prohibited/ banned, dangerous, hazardous or considered contraband by any applicable law. In the event of the shipment containing any items or material as aforesaid, the consignor agrees and undertakes to fully indemnify Delhivery for any loss, damages, costs, expenses, penalties, fines, liability thereof by Delhivery with regard to the said item or material. Further, consignor agrees to indemnify and hold the Delhivery harmless for any loss, damages, costs, expenses, penalties, fines, liabilities, of any nature whatsoever incurred or suffered by Delhivery due to any acts or omissions, breach of applicable law and/ or customer/ third party claims solely attributable to the consignor.
Weekend days, holidays, bank holidays, delays caused by security reasons, force majeure events or any other delay beyond Delhivery's reasonable control will not be considered as part of door to door delivery TATs/timelines. The route and the method by which Delhivery transports shipments shall be its sole discretion.
The consignor shall not book any consignment containing any of the following items - fragile items, highly perishable food items, LEDs, LCDs, plasma, OLED and any kind of television screens, liquid product, livestock, perishables, live plants, flammable items (firecrackers, oil cans, adhesives, paint cans), explosives (arms, ammunition, fireworks, flares, gunpowder, airbag inflators), fire extinguishers, platinum, gold, silver, artificial jewelry, gem, precious, semi-precious metals or stones in any form including bricks, alcohol/tobacco/ medicines/drugs/poisonous goods, toxic and infectious items, high capacity batteries such as car batteries, generator batteries, machinery parts containing oil, grease, fuel or batteries, corrosive items (acids, chemicals), radioactive material, Indian postal articles such as stamps and articles like coins, banknotes, currency notes, Sodexo or securities of any kind payable to bearer, traveler's cheques, gambling devices, lottery tickets, pornographic material, dry ice used for packaging or temperature control, organs or body parts, any diagnostic specimens, and other items considered contraband under the Indian Postal law ("Notified Items").
Further, consignors will not hand over any secure documents including but not restricted to education certificates, passport, Aadhar Cards, bank statements, credit cards, debit cards, bank cheques and / or currency items, passports amongst other documents- ("Restricted Documents"). Delhivery is not licensed to carry Restricted Documents and shall have no liability in such cases if such documents are handed over for delivery by the consignor.
Pick up Cut off timings: The pick-up requests raised prior to 2 pm will be attempted for pick up on the same day, whereas the pick-up requests raised post 2 pm will be attempted for pick up on the next working day.
The consignor must inform Delhivery before the scheduled pick-up in case of their unavailability at the scheduled time.
In case of 3 failed pickup attempts, the pick-up request will be canceled by Delhivery, and the refund will be processed to the original mode of payment by Delhivery subject to the bank's refund guidelines. . Please refer to the claim section for further details.
Shipments cannot be delivered to PO boxes or postal codes. Shipments are delivered to the consignee's address as provided by the consignor but not necessarily to the named consignee personally. Shipments to addresses with a central receiving area will be delivered to that area only.
If the consignee refuses delivery or the shipment is deemed to be unacceptable, or it has been undervalued for customs purposes, or if the consignee is not reasonably identified or located, Delhivery will make reasonable efforts to return the shipment to the consignor's address at the consignor's cost only. If Delhivery is unable to return the said shipments due to reasons attributable to the consignor alone or due to any reason beyond the control of Delhivery, the shipment may be released, disposed of by Delhivery, without incurring any liability/penalty whatsoever in this regard. Further, Delhivery will bear no liability for the same towards the consignor or any third party.
Unless and until otherwise specified, the delivery shall be made at the address mentioned in the consignment.
In the event of a failed pickup, the entire logistics charge / booking amount shall be refunded to the consignor's original mode of payment within 15 working days.
In the event of non-delivery of a shipment, the consignor can opt for the shipment to be returned. Consignors will be liable Delhivery reserves for the reverse movement charges. For the same, the return address is set as the same address registered as the sender's/consignor's address at the time of booking.
The consignee of the shipment may give special instructions to deliver the Shipment to another location other than consignee's address (for example to a neighboring address or another drop off location) or the consignee may indicate their wish to collect the Shipment from a location approved by Delhivery, only if the same is agreeable to Delhivery. These special delivery instructions, will incur additional charges and the following provisions shall apply:
a. The provision of any delivery receipt on which the alternative delivery location is listed shall constitute proof of delivery of the shipment.
b. Delhivery shall not be liable for any loss, damage or delay in any way specifically as a result of its performance of customer is / consignee is special delivery instructions
The consignee may authorize Delhivery and Delhivery may accept to the following
a. to leave shipments without signing the acknowledgment of receipt at the delivery address due to the unavailability of any individual to collect the shipment.
b. to deliver in the letterbox/locker box In such cases, Delhivery will provide proof of delivery, on request, and will not be held liable for any loss or damage of any shipment.
Weight: If found that the actual weight of the shipment is more than the designated value mentioned at the time of booking, Delhivery may contact the consignor to collect the deficit amount. Delhivery will be at liberty to return the shipment if Delhivery does not hear from the consignor or the balance payment is not made within 3 working days by the consignor. The decision of Delhivery in this regard will be final and binding.
It is not possible to entertain any request for updating the delivery address once the shipment leaves the city of origin. However, consignors can make a change of contact details if duly communicated to Delhivery through the support ID. Any change in such information may lead to increasing the delivery timelines which will be the sole liability and responsibility of the consignor alone. Delhivery reserves its right to refuse the booking of any consignment without assigning any reason whatsoever.
The consignor shall be solely responsible for all costs and expenses (GST, excise and other charges leviable by the Central / State / Local governments) and also for all costs consequent to any penalty, action, proceedings in relation to the consignment. The aforesaid costs and charges and all other levies and duties shall be payable by the consignor failing which Delhivery shall be within its rights to withhold the delivery of the consignment or forfeit the consignment entirely if required.
Delhivery reserves the right to refuse delivery of consignment if proper acknowledgment, such as, signature, government ID card if required etc. is not given by the consignee. Further, the consignor is required to share the address of the consignee given along with the pin code and the telephone number to enable prompt delivery and easy identification.
The consignor understands and accepts that the shipment shall be carried by Delhivery from the point of booking to the delivery address based on the address and pin code of the consignee along with the correct credentials of the consignee. For any rerouting / redirection, the consignor shall be liable to pay additional charges as applicable.
The consignor has agreed to obtain the services of Delhivery at the consignor's own risk.
While Delhivery will endeavor to exercise its best efforts to provide expeditious delivery of the consignment in accordance with regular delivery schedules, Delhivery shall not under any circumstances be liable for delay or for consequences arising out of delay of the said consignment, regardless of the cause for delay.
Delhivery shall not be liable for any delay in pickup, mis-delivery, non-delivery or loss or damage to it caused on account of an act of God, force majeure and or circumstances like strikes, riots, political and other disturbances or accidental fire, accident of vehicle carrying the goods explosions or any other cause reasonably beyond the control of Delhivery.
The consignor should ship only a single package per airway bill number. If the consignor hands over multiple packages against a single airway bill number, Delhivery will not be liable for losses, damages or delays. In such a case Delhivery reserves the right to cancel the pick up at doorstep and Delhivery's decision will be final and binding.
Parcels moved via Surface (road) mode:
a. Cannot exceed 50 kgs in charged weight.
b. Delhivery calculates charged weight as higher of:
Volumetric weight - which is calculated as LxBxH (in cm) /5000.
Dead Weight - physical weight of the parcel as measured by a standard weighing scale.
The parcel is usually moved as per the mode of transport selected by the consignor at the time of booking. However, Delhivery reserves the right to change the mode of transport basis rules and restrictions of delivery. Parcel moved via express mode :
a. The package, including the weight of the packaging, must not weigh more than 10kg in total, whether it's based on its actual weight or its volume.
b. The length, width, or height of the package, including its packaging, cannot be greater than 50cm in any dimension.
c. The contents of the parcel permitted for express movement are further restricted to not contain any Notified Items or Restricted Documents. If these items i.e., any Notified Items or Restricted Documents are found in the consignments booked for Express movement, the items might be forfeited, disposed off or moved via Surface without any pre-notification or liability of Delhivery.
Delhivery Limited does not bear the responsibility to return or inform customers after the parcel has been picked or/and delivered., ask for the return of the package.
The contents of the package should adhere to the size and weight declaration by the customer made while completing the booking in the app. In case of any deviation, Delhivery reserves the right to refuse pickup at the doorstep or to refuse to connect the same further in the network.
Any claim (including for loss or damage) in respect of the consignment shall be made within three (3) days by raising a ticket on the app. In the case of damaged shipments, the consignor and / or consignee needs to share 3 photos of the damaged shipment and packaging along with the description of the damage. In absence of any such claims, made within the period stipulated here, Delhivery shall not be liable for the same.
When claiming for refund against a loss or damage, the consignor must verify his / her identity as the original sender/consignor of the parcel. Delhivery may ask for relevant information to identify credibility in this case. In case credibility is not established by Delhivery, the refund request will not be entertained.
Delhivery will be liable to compensate for any loss or damage of a shipment (not containing any Notified Items or Restricted Documents) in transit to the extent Rs 2,000/- (Rupees Two Thousand Only) for all shipments not covered by Delhivery Protect.
In case a shipment is covered by additional coverage offered by Delhivery Protect, compensation for loss or damage will be done in accordance with the Delhivery Protect plan as provided herein below, calculated based on the declared value of the contents at the time of booking.
Reverse liability - In the event of mis-declaration of the product where the product causes damage to itself or any other related goods while under carriage, the consignor shall be liable for any damages related to the product including consequential damages.

Void liability - In the event of mis-declaration of the product, Delhivery shall not be liable for either the logistics charge nor the declared value of goods nor the mis-shipment penalty of Rs. 2,000/- and will be in it's right to forfeit such shipment.
Under no circumstances will Delhivery or any of its director, officer, employee, agent or contractor be liable to the consignor or consignee for any indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary losses or damages, mis-delivery, non-delivery of consignment for any reason whatsoever. More particularly, Delhivery shall not be liable for any loss of income, profits, interests and other consequential losses.
Refund period - All claims and refunds shall be resolved within 30 - 45 working days from the day the claim has been raised. The decision of Delhivery in this regard will be final and binding.
In case the consignor is contacted by Delhivery for furnishing additional details required to process compensation payout towards loss or damage of the shipment (in accordance to the liability limit only), Delhivery will not be liable for payment if the details requested are not provided within 14 calendar days from the date on which the initial e-mail is sent to the consignor. The additional details requested may include (but are not limited to) photos to prove damage to the shipment and / or bank details of the consignor to which the payout needs to be credited.
Blocking of access - The consignor acknowledges and agrees that Delhivery may block his/her access to its services, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason, at Delhivery's sole discretion, without prior notice or liability. Such reasons may include, but are not limited to, violation of these terms and conditions, applicable law, or Delhivery's policies, misuse of Delhivery's services, security risks, or fraudulent activities. Delhivery may restore the consignor's access at its sole discretion.

Arbitration - All disputes, differences, claims or questions between Delhivery and consignor or anybody claiming through or on behalf of the consignor shall be referred to arbitration to be held in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 or statutory modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force
The arbitration proceedings shall be held and conducted in Delhi. The award of the arbitrator shall be final, compulsive and binding upon the parties.
Subject to the provisions of arbitration clause hereinabove the courts in Delhi shall have the executive jurisdiction to deal with all disputes and matters regarding performance or non-performance of obligations under or in respect of transaction covered by this consignment.
Delhivery reserves the right to not ship a parcel from the port of departure owing to weight mismatch and / or variance.
Delhivery is not liable for any discrepancies in the shipment content value as declared by the shipper.
In case of loss/damage of a parcel (not containing any Notified Items or Restricted Documents) due to Delhivery's negligence, Delhivery will refund the Logistics Charge collected from the customer


A pickup request booked via Delhivery Direct will be attempted by Delhivery for a maximum of 3 attempts only.
A shipment booked via Delhivery Direct will be attempted for delivery for a maximum of 3 attempts only. In case the shipment is non-deliverable despite 3 attempts, Delhivery reserves the right to abandon / forfeit the shipment and its contents. Delhivery will not be liable to carry the shipment back to origin under any circumstances.
Incorrect Weight Declaration
The consignor undertakes that they will make all reasonable efforts to correctly estimate the weight of the shipment and declare the correct weight slab. If Delhivery identifies that the shipment weight has been under-declared to a lower weight slab, then:
Delhivery reserves the right to seek compensation for the additional undeclared weight through various means, in its sole discretion, not restricted to holding the shipment.
Delhivery reserves the right to reject any claims for loss or damage to shipments, or to offer compensation at its sole discretion in accordance with its policies and standards.
Packaging
Delhivery's liability for packaging is limited to providing outer/secondary packaging only to provide support to its customers. The use of Delhivery provided packaging is not a guarantee that an item is sufficiently packaged for transportation. The liability for proper packaging continues to be fully on the consignor.
Inner Packaging is the packaging material that first envelops the product and holds it. For example, suitable packing materials are bubble wrap, rolled corrugated cardboard, etc. For very delicate contents such as glass, we recommend using five or six-ply bubble wrap. You should only use crumpled newspapers as filling material for products that are not particularly delicate or fragile in nature. Outer Packaging is the original packaging / the packaging in which it was sold and is not to be considered suitable for sending the parcel.
Delhivery does not provide special handling stickers for packages bearing the tag "Fragile", Package orientation markings (e.g., "UP" arrows or "This End Up"), or any other similar markings.
Delhivery will not entertain any claims for shipments damaged due to poor Inner Packaging (as defined hereinafter).
In case of damage caused to a shipment due to poor packaging, Delhivery will not be liable for any compensation.
Packaging Instructions
Measure the dimension of the product to select the appropriate size box/flyer / envelope.
Weigh the item to select the strength of the box/flyer required.
Wrap the product with 2 layers of bubble wrap before putting it inside the box/flyer.
If packing multiple products, pack individual products in bubble wrap.
Place the goods inside the box and check if any void space is left inside the box.
In case of any void space, it must be filled with filler material like air cushions/air pouches/crumbled paper/cardboard inserts (used as dividers for packing multiple products) to restrict the movement of the product packed inside the box.
Make sure the product is surrounded with the filler material around it with the product being placed in the center of the box.
After closing the flaps of the box, apply H - taping on the box by sealing the center and edge seams of the box.
Customer must shake the box to check whether the product packed inside is moving or not. If it is moving, then add more filler material to restrict its movement inside the box.
Delhivery Protect Program
Delhivery Protect offers coverage against loss/damage of shipments in the Delhivery Direct network. Clauses specifically applicable to Delhivery Protect which are to be read together with the clauses given above.

In case of any disconnect between the clauses given above and the clauses given below for Delhivery Protect, the clauses given below for Delhivery Protect shall prevail.

What's Covered?
Loss of contents or shipment due to any form of pilferage, accidents etc.
Damage due to unforeseen conditions like accidents etc.
What is not Covered?
Delhivery Protect does not cover-

Shipments containing Consumables or any prohibited, notified items or restricted documents, Delhivery shall not bear any liability for such shipments. [Appendix 1]
Loss/damage or expense related to perishable food items, livestock, depleting goods or live plants. This includes, but not limited to, items subject to spoilage, deterioration, evaporation or depletion due to time, temperature or environmental conditions, whether or not such loss arises during the transit.
Cases where the consignor has shipped any electronic item without using the original packaging for such item (as provided by the manufacturer of said electronic item), Delhivery Protect shall not cover any incident of damage to the shipment and Delhivery shall not be liable towards the consignor for any damage in such cases.
In the event of mis-declaration of the product content, value and/or weight, Delhivery shall not be liable for either the revised logistics charge nor the declared value of goods and will be in its absolute right to forfeit such shipment


Frequently Asked Questions
Q1. Can I change the declared value after placing my order?
The declared value as stated at the time of manifestation will be considered final. No changes to this will be entertained after the shipment is manifested. In case this needs to be changed before the shipment is picked up, you can cancel the booking and initiate a fresh request with the correct details.

Q2. What if I raise a claim query after 3 days of delivery?
Complaints/claims/queries for damages and mis-delivery have to be raised within 3 days from the date of delivery for any investigation to be undertaken before the claim amount can be processed. Claims raised after 3 days will not be entertained.

In case of loss of shipment, the customer can raise a ticket on the Delhivery website/app, after the expected delivery date has been breached.

Q3. What if I am not able to attest images of the damaged shipment?
Complaints received for damaged items cannot be investigated unless you share proof of damage. We will need 3 pictures of the delivered shipment that highlights the state of the outer packaging material as well as the inner content, along with the description of the damage. It is suggested to make a video while unpacking the shipment.

Q4. What if my shipment is delayed?
Delhivery Protect offers compensation towards loss or damage of your shipment only. Delays can be sometimes caused due to unforeseen circumstances or other factors for which Delhivery cannot be held liable and hence, cannot compensate you under the Delhivery Protect plan for such delays.

Q5. What if the contents of the shipment are damaged but the outer packaging is intact?
In case the outer packaging is intact, but the inner contents are damaged due to absence of suitable packaging material like bubble wrap, air cushion or foam sheets, Delhivery will not be liable for compensating the loss.

Q6. What are the General exclusions from policy?
Apart from the items listed under the header 'What is not covered?', there are three broad types of exclusions:

General exclusions:

Loss, damage or expense attributable to willful misconduct of the shipper/consignee
Ordinary leakage, ordinary loss in weight or volume, or ordinary wear and tear of the subject-matter covered.
Loss, damage or expense caused by insufficiency or unsuitability of packing or preparation of the subject-matter covered (for the purpose of this clause "packing" shall be deemed to include stowage in containers or lift van but only when such stowage is carried out prior to attachment of this cover or by the shipper/consignee or their servants)
Loss, damage or expense proximately caused by delay.
Loss, damage or expense caused by inherent vice or nature of the subject-matter covered.
Loss, damage or expense arising from the use of any weapon of war employing atomic or nuclear fission and/or fusion or other like reaction or radioactive force or matter.
War exclusions:

Delhivery shall not be liable for loss, damage or expense caused by:

War, civil war, revolution, rebellion, insurrection, or civil strife arising therefrom, or any hostile act by or against a belligerent power.
Capture, seizure, arrest, restraint or detainment, and the consequences thereof or any attempt thereat.
Derelict mines, bombs, or other derelict weapons of war
Strike exclusions:

Delhivery shall not be liable for loss, damage, or expense:

Caused by strikers, locked-out workers or persons taking part in labor disturbances, riots or civil commotions.
Resulting from strikes, lockouts, labor disturbances, riots, or civil commotions
Caused by any terrorist or any person acting from a political motive.
Appendix 1 - Prohibited/ Notified Items
The consignor shall not book any consignment containing any of the following restricted or prohibited items:

Fragile items
Highly perishable food items
LEDs, LCDs, plasma, OLED and any kind of television screens
Liquid products
Livestock, perishables, live plants, liquor
Flammable items (firecrackers, oil cans, adhesives, paint cans), explosives (arms, ammunition, fireworks, flares, gunpowder, airbag inflators), fire extinguishers
Platinum, gold, silver, artificial jewelry, gem
Precious, semi-precious metals or stones in any form including bricks, alcohol/tobacco/medicines/drugs/poisonous goods
Toxic and infectious compounds, liquid or gas
High-capacity batteries such as car batteries, generator batteries, lithium batteries
Machinery parts containing oil, grease, fuel or batteries
Corrosive items (acids, chemicals, bleach)
Radioactive material
Indian postal articles such as stamps
Articles like coins, banknotes, currency notes
Sodexo or securities of any kind payable to bearer
Traveler's cheques
Gambling devices
Lottery tickets
Pornographic material
Dry ice used for packaging or temperature control (Carbon Dioxide, Solid)
Organs or body parts
Diagnostic specimens
Other items considered contraband under the Indian Postal law ("Notified Items")
Any secure documents including but not restricted to education certificates, passport, Aadhar Cards, bank statements, credit cards, debit cards, bank cheques and/or currency items, passports amongst other documents
Oil-based paint and thinners (flammable liquids, flammable adhesives)
Industrial solvents
Insecticides, garden chemicals (fertilizers, poisons)
Magnetized materials
Automobile batteries
Arms and ammunition


